



10:16 Puggalavaggo - English




Aïguttara Nikàya
4. Catutthapaõõàsakaü Ý The fourth fifty.
016. Puggalavaggo Ý The section on persons
1. Sevitabbasuttaü Ý Should be served
155. ßBhikkhus, the person endowed with ten things should not be served. What ten?
Wrong view, wrong thoughts, wrong speech, wrong actions, wrong livelihood, wrong endeavour, wrong mindfulness, wrong concentration, wrong knowledge and wrong release. Bhikkhus, the person endowed with these ten things should not be served.
Bhikkhus, the person endowed with ten things should be served. What ten?
Right view, right thoughts, right speech, right actions, right livelihood, right endeavour, right mindfulness, right concentration, right knowledge and right release. Bhikkhus, the person endowed with these ten things should be served.
2 Ý 12. Bhajitabbasuttàni Ý The should be associated
156-166. ßBhikkhus, the person endowed with ten things should not be associated ... re ... should be associated. Should not be sat close to, ... re ... should be sat close to. Is not honourable, ... re ... is honourable. Is praiseworthy, ... re ... is not praiseworthy. Is not honourable, ... re ... is honourable. Is forgetful, ... re ... is not forgetful. Is not accomplihed, ... re ... is accomplished. Does not purify, ... re ... purifies. Is not overcome by conceit, ... re ... is overcome by conceit. Is not developed in wisdom, ... re ... is developed in wisdom. Accumulates much demerit. What ten?
One with wrong view, wrong thoughts, wrong speech, wrong actions, wrong livelihood, wrong endeavour, wrong mindfulness, wrong concentration, wrong knowledge and wrong release. Bhikkhus, ... re ... acumulates much demerit. What ten?
Right view, right thoughts, right speech, right actions, right livelihood, right endeavour, right mindfulness, right concentration, right knowledge and right release. Bhikkhus, this person accumulates much merit.






10:20 Aparapuggalavaggo - English




Aïguttara Nikàya
020. Aparapuggalavaggo Ý Another on persons
1. Nasevitabbàdisuttàni Ý Should not be served
199. ßBhikkhus, the person endowed with ten things should not be served. What ten?
Destroying living things, taking the not given, misbehaving sexually, telling lies, slandering, talking roughly, talking frivolously, coveting, bearing an angry mind and upholding wrong view. The person endowed with these ten things should not be served.
Bhikkhus, the person endowed with